  * [about](/about.html)
  * [blog](/blog/)
  * [ __ ](http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/~ley/pers/hd/b/Branchaud:Joshua.html)
  * [ __ ](http://github.com/jbranchaud)
  * [ __ ](http://flickr.com/jbranchaud)
  * [ __ ](https://twitter.com/jbrancha)
  * [ __ ](/feed.xml)

# [Josh Branchaud](/)

Saturday - Mar 02, 2013

# Running Your Jekyll Blog from a Subdirectory

A pretty common practice for self-hosted blogs is to host them below some
subdirectory like `/blog/`. That is exactly what I am doing with the blog that
powers this very post. My domain is `joshbranchaud.com`, my blog index can be
found at `joshbranchaud.com/blog/`, and a particular blog post (such as this
one) can be be found at something like `joshbranchaud.com/blog/2013/03/02
/Running-Your-Jekyll-Blog-from-a-Subdirectory.html`.

If you are blogging with [Jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll) and you
want to run your blog from a subdirectory, then keep reading.

The [Jekyll wiki](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Usage) is extremely
helpful at getting your blog up and running, but it assumes that you are going
to run your blog from the top-level directory. In this post, I will present
two approaches to running your blog from a subdirectory.

## Solution 1

If you are simply powering only your blog with Jekyll and plan to maintain any
other portions of your website separately, then this is the solution you are
interested in.

Create a directory called `blog` in your public html directory (that is, in
the directory that your domain points to). Just ssh into your server, navigate
to the directory where your site is currently being deployed, and do a
`mkdir`.

Assuming you are using some sort of [deployment
scheme](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Deployment), you need to have
that deployment scheme tell Jekyll to deploy to the `blog` directory instead
of the directory it is currently using.

That’s it. You are now running your blog (alone) from the `blog` subdirectory.

_Note: Make sure to update any links that you had pointing to your blog to
reflect the new URL._

## Solution 2

This is a slightly more complex solution that allows you to power your entire
website with Jekyll and still have the blog part appear in the `blog`
subdirectory.

Start by creating a directory locally where you have your Jekyll blog setup.
This directory will sit along side `_posts`, `_site`, `css`, etc. This is only
going to hold non-post files such as `index.html`. The blog posts will still
go in the `_posts` directory. The next paragraph should shed light on why this
is so.

Next, we are going to tell Jekyll that we want it to take our blog posts and
put them inside a directory called `blog` when it generates them. This can be
done by adding a permalink setting to the `_config.yml` file. Add a line like
this to the top of the file: `permalink:
/blog/:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title.html`. Let me explain. The default
(which you have probably been using) puts posts in a directory structure
starting with the category, followed by the date, and finally with the title
of the blog post as the name of the html file. Which, spelled out would be
`/:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title.html`. Does that look familiar? Sure
does. It is what we have used above, sans the `/blog` part. We are essentially
emulating the default directory structure and while adding our `blog`
directory at the beginning.

Lastly, you are going to want to add an index.html file to the `blog`
directory that you created. This way, when a person goes to
`mydomain.com/blog/` they can see what blog posts you have to offer. This
index page is going to more or less mirror exactly what you had setup
originally for listing your blog posts.

With these changes in place, relaunch your server to account for the change to
the config file and see how you like your new setup. You will notice that it
is only your blog and blog posts that appear in the `blog` subdirectory. The
rest of your pages will remain accessible from their original URLs.

_Note: Like the previous solution, you are going to want to update any links
to your posts (that aren’t generated by Jekyll) so that you don’t get a bunch
of 404s. If there are links to your blog that you cannot update, then you may
want to include some
[redirects](http://www.javascriptkit.com/howto/htaccess7.shtml) in your
htaccess file._

## Summary

With these two straightforward solutions, you can quickly have your Jekyll-
powered blog deployed in a subdirectory. There are certainly a number of other
ways to accomplish because of Jekyll’s power and flexibility. Feel free to
share your solutions in the comments below.

Have fun blogging with Jekyll!

If you enjoyed this post, follow me on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/jbrancha).

[KC Startup Weekend - Day 1 ->](/blog/2013/04/12/KC-Startup-Weekend-
Day-1.html) [<- Enabling Local File Access While Developing
Javascript](/blog/2013/02/23/Enabling-Local-File-Access-While-Developing-
Javascript.html)

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript) [comments powered by
Disqus](http://disqus.com)

Lovingly concocted by [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) (C) 2013 - 2014 [Josh
Branchaud](http://joshbranchaud.com) * [email](mailto:jbranchaud@gmail.com) *
[@jbrancha](http://twitter.com/jbrancha)
